Abblitzen lassen: To ignore or snub someone. Ex: Sie hat mich abblitzen lassen! - She blew me off!
Abderben: To celebrate, have fun. Ex: Heute Abend werden wir richtig abderben! - Tonight we'll party!
Abfiedeln: To dance like crazy
Clown Gefrühstückt: Is used to express that one doesn't find someone's joke funny. Literally, have you eaten a clown for breakfast?
Geil: Hot, cool
Jein: A mix of the words “Ja” for yes and “Nein” for no, used to express when something isn’t clear cut, or when one hasn't yet made a decision
Irre: Crazy!
Krass: Can be used to portray both good and bad emotion in equal measure
Lecker: Tasty!
Der Hammer: Used to express how cool something is, literally "the hammer"
Quatsch: A lighthearted way of saying, "dont' be silly!" or "what are you talking about?"
Kater: Hangover
Ausflippen: To lose control and start shouting in a moment of pure anger
Verdammt: Can be used the same way as the English word "Damn" or "Dammit!"
Sau-: A prefix added to an adjective to emphasise how extreme something is. Ex: Saugeil - Insanely cool!
Besserwisser: Know-it-all
Alter: A shortened version of the term, “Alter Schwede” which translates to old Swedish man. It can used to express surprise, informally greet someone or as an interjection
Was geht ab?: What's up?
Mensch!: Oh man!
Mist!: Crap!
Glucose-haltig: Used when someone or something is sweet
Belasten: To get on someone's nerves
Alles gucci?: Everything good?
Bruder muss los: Phrase that is said when someone wants to leave an unpleasant situation, literally "brother has to go"
Cornern: Spend the evening with friends on a street corner
Gönnjamin: Name for someone who indulges in luxury
Kek: derogatory term for someone; comparable to idiot or jerk
Stabil: cool, good, but also: "stay stable" (means: hold on, do not let it get you down)
Alman: Tokeful term for stereotypical and clichéd German behavior
Brachteln: To try something and fail at it
Verbuggt: Means that something or someone is full of mistakes, works incorrectly
Schatzlos: term for someone who is single
Sozialtot: Someone who doesn't use social media, literally "social dead"
In den sauren Apfel beißen müssen: Used when one has to get through difficult times, literally "to bite the sour apple".  The english equivalent is "to bite the bullet"
Alte liebe rostet nicht: "An old flame never dies".  Used when one is still in love with their ex
Mit Haut und Haaren: To give something your all, or be involved 100%.  Literally, "with skin and hair"
Durch die Lappen gehen: To let something slip through one's fingers, or get lost
Hals über Kopf:  To do something in a mad rush
Wahnsinnig:  Exhilarating, adrenaline-rush inducing
Bescheuert: Annoying or depressing, something that brings you down
Bock auf etwas haben:  To be up for doing something
Auf jeden Fall: Definitely, for sure!
Mach's gut!: Have a good one! A casual way of saying goodbye
Naja:  Filler word, roughly translates to "well..."
Auf dicke Hose machen: Used to describe someone who is boasting, bragging or generally pretending to be better than they really are, especially when it comes to possessing money or wealth.  Literally, "to act as if you have fat pants"
Gebongt sein: Used to signify that a matter is settled or that you have come to an agreement.
Nicht alle Tassen im Schrank haben:  To lose one's mind, literally "to not have all one's cups in the cabinet".  Roughly translates to the english slang "to lose one's marbles"
Na?: the shortest way to ask about someone's wellbeing
Die Nase voll haben:  To be fed up with something, literally "to have one's nose full"
Chillig: used to describe a laid-back atmosphere or relaxing surroundings you would encounter while having a chill night.
Einen dicken Hals haben: An expression of anger, rage, and general annoyance, literally "to have a swollen neck"
Aus der Reihe tanzen: Used to describe someone who stands out by getting out of line or acting different from everyone else, literally "to dance outside the line"
Prost!: Cheers!
Fett: Cool!
Zwielichtig: Shady or dodgy
Digga: Dude, bro, mate
Scheißegal: Of no damned importance
Easy: Simple, no big deal
Kummerspeck: Excess weight gained from emotional overeating
Weltschmerz: Mental depression or apathy caused by comparison of the actual state of the world with an ideal state.
Verschlimmbessern: To make something worse by trying to improve it










