accidente: nothing, zip; (lit.) an accident.
alito puzzolente: bad breath; (lit.) stinking breath.
allocco: a stupid person, a jerk; (lit.) an owl.
alzare il gomito: to drink; (lit.) to raise an elbow.
amore a prima vista: love at first sight
avere un chiodo fisso in testa: to be fixated on something; (lit.) to have a nail fixed in the head.
beccare qualcuno: to hit on someone, to pick someone up; (lit.) to peck.
bel niente: nothing, zip; (lit.) a beautiful nothing.
boccalone: a big mouth, a gossip; (lit.) an enormous mouth.
chiudere il becco: to shut up; (lit.) to close the beak.
colpo di fulmine: love at first sight; (lit.) a thunderbolt (of love).
come il cacio sui maccheroni: just what the doctor ordered; (lit.) like cheese on macaroni.
da parte: aside.
donnaiolo: womanizer, playboy, flirt.
due parole: a few words; (lit.) two words.
essere in gioco: to be at stake.
essere nelle nuvole: to daydream; (lit.) to be in the clouds.
essere un po' di fuori: to be a little wacky, to be out of one's mind; (lit.) to be a little bit out.
fannullone: a lazy bum; (lit.) do-nothing (from fare nulla, meaning "to do nothing").
fare il grande: to show off, to act like someone big; (lit.) to do the big.
fare impazzire qualcuno: to drive someone crazy; (lit.) to make someone crazy.
farsi bello(a): to doll oneself up.
farsi una canna: to have a joint.
fuori come un balcone: drunk; (lit.) to be outside like a balcony.
fuori di testa: to be out of one's mind; (lit.) to be out of one's head.
grattarsi la pancia: to twiddle one's thumbs; (lit.) to scratch one's stomach.
gruzzolo: a fund of money accumulated as a reserve, nest egg.
guastafesta: a party pooper; (lit.) a party spoiler.
in gran parte: largely.
in orario: on time.
in verità: as a matter of fact; (lit.) in truth.
inghiottire il rospo: be humiliated by having to admit one's defeats or mistakes; (lit.) to swallow a toad.
la vita di Michelaccio: the easy life; (lit.) the life of Michelaccio
leccapiedi: brownnoser, suck-up; (lit.) feet-licker.
libro giallo: detective or mystery story; (lit.) yellow book.
limonare: to make out.
locale: club or night club.
mettere paglia al fuoco: to tempt fate; (lit.) to add straw to the fire.
mettersi insieme: to start a serious relationship, to tie the knot; (lit.) to put oneself together.
mollare qualcuno: to dump someone; (lit.) to let go of someone, to release someone.
morire di/dalla noia: to die of boredom.
nocciolo della questione: crux of the matter; (lit.) the core of the question.
nuotare nell'oro: to be rolling in money; (lit.) swimming in gold.
nuovo di zecca: brand new; (lit.)  new from the mint.
occhiataccia: dirty look.
oggi come oggi: as matters now stand.
olio di gomito: elbow grease.
ora di punta: rush hour.
parolaccia: dirty word.
piazzaiolo: vulgar, mob-.
pigrone/a: a lazy bum (from the masculine noun pigro, meaning "someone who is idle"); (lit.) big lazy bum.
portare male gli anni: not to age well; (lit.) to carry the years badly.
puzzare da fare schifo: to stink to high heaven; (lit.) to smell/stink to disgust.
quattro gatti: only a few people; (lit.) four cats.
ricco sfondato: rolling in money; (lit.) endlessly rich.
roba da matti: crazy stuff.
rompere il ghiaccio: to break the ice.
rosso come un peperone: as red as a beet; (lit.) as red as a pepper.
saccente: a know-it-all, a smart-ass; (lit.) from the verb sapere, meaning "to know."
scoreggiare: to fart.
scemo/a: a stupid person, a jerk; (from the verb scemare, meaning "to shrink or diminish").
sfatto: worn out after a night of debauchery.
spettegolare: to gossip; (lit.) to tattle.
tabula rasa: a clean slate.
tappo: a very short guy; (lit.) cork.
testona pelata: a bald guy; (lit.) big peeled head.
tirare un bidone a qualcuno: to stand someone up on a date or appointment; (lit.) to throw a trash can at someone.
tutto sale e pepe: lively, cheerful; (lit.) all salt and pepper.
uggioso/a: boring; (lit.) an annoying person.
ultima parola: last word, bottom line.
valere la pena: to be worth the trouble; (lit.) worth the grief or sorrow.
vaso di Pandora: Pandora's box; (lit.) Pandora's vase.
veloce come un razzo: as fast as a bullet; (lit.) as fast as a rocket.
vivere alla giornata: to live from hand to mouth.
volente o nolente: like it or not; (lit.) willing or unwilling.




