AMERICAN SLANG WORDS AND PHRASES
Ace (v.): To pass a test, exam, etc. really easily. "Robert aced his physics exam."
A-Game: One’s best self, often in relation to a competition. “I’ll bring my A-game”
All-ears: When someone says "I'm all ears", they are telling you that they are listening to you, that they are giving you
their undivided attention.
All-nighter (n.): A period of work or study that lasts all night. Most often used with the verb "pull" (To pull an all-nighter)
Are you kidding me?: Phrase often used rhetorically to express frustration or excitement.
Around-the-clock: 24/7, all day and night, non-stop
ASAP: stands for ‘as soon as possible’
B-Ball: often used to abbreviate basketball
Blow or Bomb: to fail or to be unsuccessful
Blue, or Have the Blues: to feel depressed or sad
Bro: a friend, often used for a masculine friend
Buck: one dollar
By the skin of your teeth: just barely
Cash (n.): money
Cheesy (adj.): Cheap, tacky. "A cheesy pick-up line", "A cheesy song", etc.
Chill: relax.
Come on: used to express frustration.
Cool (adj.): nice, great, impressive, popular, interesting "a cool dress", "a cool guy", "a cool bar"
Cop (n.): Police officer.
Couch Potato: a lazy person, one who sits on a couch and watches TV.
Cram: to study feverishly before an exam.
Crash: to go to sleep; or to show up without invitation “Can I crash here tonight?"
Dead: Empty; quiet (said of bars, clubs, restaurants, etc.) "It's really dead in here tonight"
Drive up the wall: to irritate; “He is driving me up the wall.”
Dutch or go Dutch: each person pays for his/her own meal.
FYI: acronym “for your information”
Get under one’s skin: bother
Give the cold shoulder: ignore
Hang out: to gather in a casual; and social manner.
Hip: cool, popular.
Hit the books: study.
Hit the road: to leave.
Hold your horses: Wait a minute!
Hyped (adj.): Really excited. "We're all hyped about the concert next weekend."
I feel you: I understand/empathize with you
In no time: Very soon. "Don't worry - We'll be there in no time."
It is what it is: it’s a fact that cannot be changed.
Jacked: really strong/muscular, “He’s jacked”
Jonesing: to want something badly. “I’m jonesing for a coffee”
Lemon: a bad buy or purchase.
Lighten up (v.): To relax; to not take things too seriously. "You gotta learn to lighten up a bit!"
LOL: Text acronym for ‘laugh out loud’
My Bad: my fault or my mistake.
No problem: you’re welcome, not a big deal
OMG: Text acronym for ‘oh my god’. Used to express surprise or excitement.
On the hour: an idiom meaning every hour exactly;
Once in a blue moon: infrequently
Pass the buck: transfer responsibility to someone else.
Piece of cake: easy or effortless.
Put up a front: trying to act/appear tough
R.S.V.P.: Stands for a French phrase, repondez, s’il vous plait. A formal reply to an invitation, by phone or mail.
Recap: to state something again
Ride shotgun (v.): To ride in the front passenger seat of a car. "I wanna ride shotgun!"
Rip-off: overcharge.
Score: to get something you want.
Screw up (v.): To make a mistake, do something badly/wrong “I really screwed up my audition."
See ya: goodbye
Shoot the breeze: casual conversation.
Snagged/Nabbed: to take something without asking or slyly
Spill the beans: reveal a secret.
Take a rain-check: do at another time.
Take for granted: to assume.
That hit the spot: (When talking about food/drinks) that was really good; that’s just what I needed.
The bomb: if something ‘is the bomb’, it is awesome
Trash (v.): To destroy. "The band trashed the hotel room."
Twenty four seven (24/7): Non-stop, around the clock. "That place is open 24/7. It never closes."
What’s up: How are you?
Wicked: used as adjective (meaning “amazing”) or a modifier (meaning: “really).
Wrap up (v.): To finish; to bring something to a close. "OK, let's wrap things up for today."
You bet: of course or no problem.
You can say that again!: Phrase meaning "I agree with you completely."
You're telling me!: Phrase meaning "I know exactly what you mean"; Similar to "Don't I know it!"

